>> Kevin Powell: We need
to style the tags and
our spacing is actually
a little bit too large as well.
If we take a look at the Figma file, we
used our card because our cards over here,
the 1 rem of spacing is actually perfect.
The spacing here is good, but
if you look at these ones,
the spacing on them is a bit tighter,
so we do need to improve that.
For now, I'm gonna start by tackling
the tags and then we'll do the tags and
the notes at the bottom and then we'll
tackle the titles and the other spacing
issue cuz those come together quite
quickly and in a fun little way.
But the tags are the easier of the things
that we're going to be looking at.
And once again, you probably
know where I'm going with this.
That I like styling them based on
things that I already have instead of
having to create a class plus
having a data attribute on there.
I want the data attribute on there because
it makes my life easy to hook in with
JavaScript.
It already exists.
It's telling me what this is, so
I might as well hook into that to change
the colors of them whether they're, all
the different colors that are coming in.
So I'm gonna copy this for now.
I'm gonna go to, let's find my components,
>> Kevin Powell: And
my tag to me is a component,
it's only being used in this one place.
But again,
I wanna make something that potentially,
if there's a card somewhere
else that needs it, or
maybe not even a card I can plug and
play this, use it anywhere.
So that's why I'm not doing it as
a card tag or something else like that.
I'm trying to make it
as generic as possible.
And I'm just gonna come all the way
down site, footer, hero, cards.
We can do it just between my cards,
my buttons,
those are the types of things again.
Organization, I just try and be like,
this is more of like a one off.
These are more reusable.
You could even have sub layers,
which we'll talk about a bit later,
to be able to do these, if you want to.
So the first thing is,
I have the area label.
One thing I didn't do, and that I maybe
should have done, is actually given these
ULs all a class cuz this is one of those
times where it could actually be useful.
We could technically hook into the area
label, if you prefer doing that, you can.
Since I didn't do it,
what I'm gonna do is actually just select
the role of list that's right here, and
push command D Keyboard, which is going
to select the next one and the next one.
And I'm just gonna go through and
select all of those and
try to make sure I don't go too far,
that's all of them.
And then I'm just gonna
push left on my keyboard.
So my cursor is moved over and
it's not selecting the roll of list.
And then I can give that
a class is equal to tag list or
tags, something like
that would work as well.
And just double check.
I can scroll up,
there are scroll down now, I should say.
If I look, I can see that it's
added that on all of them.
So I do apologize for
missing that a bit earlier.
And again if you'd rather Just use
the area label, that would work as well.
It's already there.
It sorta follows the pattern
that we've already been doing.
So you could do that.
And we can say our card list,
not card list, tag list.
I don't really need,
we do need to style this actually.
Just throw a display of flex on there to
get them to go next to each other and
add a gap, and
space them out a little bit.
So that's not too much.
Just to be safe, it could be something
where in the future there's more tags,
you have less tags, you have other things,
we could also just do a flex-wrap of wrap
on here that would just
prevent any overflow.
You don't need to do this necessarily.
This could be a change that you add later
on if you actually run into an issue, but
it doesn't hurt having it there, and
it just prevents future headaches
from potentially coming up.
But it's not a big deal one way or
the other.
The one thing I didn't do is add any
classes to the list items themselves,
just because we have a tag list.
So because my tag list has
to have list items in there.
I know some people don't like having
descendant selectors we've already been
using them a lot.
So I'm very willing to do a tag list,
Li like that, so if you don't want to use
nesting, you could do it like that,
or because I've been using nesting,
we can come in and
just grab that same type of thing.
We're just creating a descendant selector.
And yeah, I'm okay with doing one
two levels of descendants selectors.
I don't think it's a problem.
It's people complain
about no scope in CSS.
We do have scope now, which is a new
thing, but this is scoping my selector.
It's the list items that are in my tag
lists, and I can style them this way.
So for that, we just wanna
give them a couple of things,
the padding will probably
have to play with.
So for now, I'm gonna make it too big.
So if you have a smaller number
by by all means, put it on there.
But I'm just going to give it
a little bit of padding, and
I'm gonna have a bit of background color.
And for the background color,
you might, whoops not, what I wanted.
As you might have guessed,
we've been doing this a lot.
You can call this tag, will do tag bg.
And I'm gonna give a fallback
of a red just for now.
We'll take that off after but
it's a good way to make sure that all
of the colors we put on after working.
We're saying if the tag bg doesn't exist,
we use the red fallback.
It just highlights it for us.
So we can see that none of them actually
have an official color that we've put on
them yet.
And maybe we could fix our
padding now with that.
It's gonna be really small on the top and
then a little bit bigger on the left and
right, I think, but
the padding overall was really tiny.
And I do believe,
let's go look at the Figma file.
But the font family is different.
And again, we can get that if I turn on.
Let's double check.
I can see it's using the outfit font
family, and the font size is 14.
So it's using the font family from our
headings, and it has our small font size.
So that means here I can come in
with my font family of FF heading,
even if it's not a heading that's
what we're primarily using it for.
So I'm happy with that.
The color was pure white, so
that was our high contrast.
And, let's hit save on
that just to see them.
That looks decent.
We'll have to check the font sizes.
It was 14,
we already looked at that, sorry.
So for that,
we can come in
font size.
You'll notice there's an issue
with the backgrounds on them.
Some of them are bigger,
some of them are smaller.
We'll talk more about that.
So if you've run into that,
don't break your head over it.
It's a simple fix that we'll
explore in a little bit.
The last thing though I will do
is add a border radius to them.
Border-radius-1 should
do the check on those.
And we might have to tweak the padding,
but
actually if I'm looking at this one
over here, the padding looks decent.
Maybe it's even a little bit
too big on the top and bottom,
I'm gonna try putting 0.
We might not need any,
that looks a little bit better actually.
And again, these are stretching out,
so it's hard to tell for sure.
We can always tweak this a little bit
after once they're not stretching anymore,
but something like that does look decent.
And then for actually coloring them and
getting the correct colors on them,
we have those data attributes that
I mentioned that we can hook into.
So we had the data edible is equal to,
and we had the different ones.
Or we had only two for this, so
data edible was either edible or
if you did true and false,
you'd do it based on those, edible.
And for the background color on these, I'm
gonna let you think about it a little bit.
I'm gonna set them, but
this is the one time I'm using
the primitive colors that we had.
Because if we go all the way back up, I
mentioned that almost everything I try and
set like a color to so like background,
accent, extra light, main, dark,
I'm coming in with these
semantic meanings for them.
When I get these one off colors like this,
where I don't know what the context of
them is, I find it hard to come up with a
semantic value for it, or a semantic name.
So sometimes I leave these like this.
You could do something like
this is a data sorry, error.
This is success.
And this is warning.
That's sort of the typical like UI element
styles that you get with orange, red and
blue, and those types of things.
But then I always feel kind of weird doing
tags with them that are not related to
those names at all.
And then I don't wanna
link it to the color.
I don't know, I don't want it to
necessarily be toxic because then I might
need that color for something else
where toxic doesn't really make sense.
So, sometimes coming up with semantic
names can be a little bit tough and
if I don't have more context
with the project I'm doing,
I'll just leave those primitives in there.
But if you have good names that you'd
rather use and you wanna create that
extra layer with the semantic names,
100% I would encourage you to do that.
And we're gonna explore later on today,
a lot more about why I like having
the primitives and the semantics, and
the value that you get
from having both of them.
But we'll get to that a little bit later.
So let's get back to those tags though.
So the edible in this case is, this
one's easier cuz it's our accent color.
Background accent main should make.
There you go.
You can see all the edible ones have come
in with the green.
I think I have too many toxic ones.
I forgot to change a couple of them
along the way, but that's okay.
We can just copy that,
paste it, if it's toxic,
as I said,
then I can just use the color red,
500 and toxics working.
I can see that has come through
on the different toxic ones.
And then we do the same thing for
the other ones, so I can copy that one.
Now instead of edible, it's the season and
we just run through on
the different seasons we have.
I should have copied this one
because it uses the same color.
>> Kevin Powell: And
I'm just gonna make this a bit bigger so
you can see all my code.
So the summer, spring, and fall,
there are no winter mushrooms.
We don't harvest in the snow.
The spring is the color teal and
the summer, sorry, fall,
>> Kevin Powell: Is the color orange,
I believe.
And then I can just double check, and if I
don't see any bright red ones showing up,
I know that I did it correctly and
everything is working there.
Awesome.
So, and just again, to reiterate,
this is one of the reasons I like
hooking into like, the data attributes.
Instead of having to double the attribute
plus a selector just to do the exact same
thing with the class, I said selector,
but I should have said class.
There's no reason that we can't just
use our data attributes like this, and
especially in a case like this where we're
hooking into it with the JavaScript that
makes our life a lot easier as well.
I think it makes a lot of
sense to do it this way.
I also just realized I put background
colors on all of these, but
we'd set up our BG tag so
I could have just redeclared that, and
that was originally
what I was going to do,
so we can just control D that and
switch the custom property instead.
They have the exact same result.
One or the other,
it's not really a huge change.
So if you did it the way
with the background color,
it would work completely fine.
If you do it with the custom property
this way, it's also gonna work.
So, it's not really a big
difference one way or the other.
We'll see in the next section or
the next part where we do the titles.
Why custom properties really can
help you out in styling things.
And to put the finishing touches on this
section, we're gonna fix up our titles and
the spacing for these.
So to be able to do that, if I go over
to my mushroom guide here, HTML file.
I am going to do one thing that I
mentioned we don't necessarily have to do
when we're on the homepage, is on my class
all the way up here, not on that one.
We're gonna go even higher on the section,
all the way up here.
I'm actually gonna give this section
a name, and on the first page,
I said, if you can avoid doing that,
we might as well avoid doing it.
These are gonna be really hard to
come up with meaningful names,
especially in generic areas like we've had
for a lot of this project, like for this,
start your foraging adventure,
you don't want a class like that.
This is just a two column.
This is a two column like it's hard to
come up with a meaningful class name, so
just using a couple of things to change
the background color is a really nice
approach.
In situations like what we're doing here,
and with our grid down at the bottom,
these are sort of a bit unique
in how they're going to work and
what they're doing.
And it's a lot easier because this is like
a specific thing that it's a mushroom
guide, and
we need to style it specifically for that.
So in cases like that,
I think we can come up and
just say this is our mushroom
guide space section.
So it's still a section, but we just have
a little bit of changes we wanna make to
this, and it's going to be specific
to if that guide exists in there.
If we're doing another section that
doesn't have the mushroom guide,
that's fine.
But this is only for if we have the
specific thing it contains our filters and
all of that that we're going to be using.
So in a case like this, I think it makes
sense to actually give it its own name.
And, if we go back, and
I'm gonna back to the cards just so
we can look at the CSS we wrote for
them a little while ago.
On the titles,
we use the custom properties for
the card-title-font-size and
card-title-color.
We never really used these cuz we relied
on the fallbacks values that we put on
those when we did it.
So we got the orange title with
the right font size originally on those
ones that we did on the first page.
But because we have these custom
properties that are here, and
because they're using fallback values,
what that means is we can come in and
let's for this one,
I'm gonna do this within my components.
I'm gonna do it with close to my hero,
because again, I see it sort of
the hero's like a sectioning component
versus a card that could go anywhere.
So after my hero I'm gonna
say a mushroom-guide.
And I don't have to select
the cards that are inside there,
cuz custom properties are inherited.
So that means I can come in and
say that my card-title-font-size and
let's just do something ridiculous for
now, and we'll go back here so
we can see the change actually happen, and
hopefully it does let's just do three rem.
And they get really big, and
then we could do our card title color and
say that it's hot pink, and
they'll change to hot pink.
So by creating these components that
have exposed custom properties relying
on fallbacks that's sort
of the default setting, and
then you can have the parent
that's redefining those.
And that gets really powerful in how
you can use that, because you can say,
you don't want to have to go on each one
of these cards that are in the mushroom
guide and put a class on there, or
create a new class that's gonna change it.
You can just go on the parent and
say, anything that's inside of here,
it's gonna get these specific values.
So in this case, you could just
put the numbers you want, but
we have custom properties already.
So in this case,
let's go look at our design.
If we look at the title here,
it is, I didn't use the settings,
but it's the 21 and it's the outfit,
or outfit we already knew,
but it's the font size is 21 which
I believe is the font-size-large,
and the title color it
didn't do my variable there.
So I'll do it the long way,
is the high contrast right there.
Let me just wrap this, var,
>> Kevin Powell: Like that,
hit save, and there we go,
those come in and they're styled nicely.
And not only did we set that
up with our card titles, but
the other thing we did with this is
when we were setting up the gaps.
We did something very similar.
We can go and find that really fast, card.
In our card, I set the gap up with
a card gap that doesn't exist, but
we gave it the fallback of one.
So by default, it's always gonna be one,
but if we need to overwrite it,
we can do that very easily.
So we can go back, we don't have to go
back the mushroom guides, right here.
So I can also say that my card gap is,
say, 0.5 rem, or 0.57.
That's too small, so I think it's
0.75 you can throw on there, and
then it adjusts the size of the gap
that's on each one of those.
So it's a really nice way I find to
be able to just have one parent.
It can we're only restyling
our cards right now, but
you could be coming through and making
changes to a lot of the sub components
that are within something
by doing it this way.
And it can just make it so
you just have these blocks that
are resiling things and
it can be really handy.
The last thing we need to do is our
little note that's down at the bottom, so
we have our card.
Card title.
This one's nice and easy,
so we'll do it quickly.
Card note, background color is the light.
Probably the extra light
actually cuz our card's light.
So now we can go to the extra light.
And again, I like doing it this way cuz
then I don't have to think about what
number something has.
Give it a bit of padding.
Maybe it's a 0.75, so
it's the same as our spacing.
We can check the Figma file.
And one thing I do with Figma files
is I just tend to eyeball it a lot.
[LAUGH] Some designers don't appreciate
that I do that, but I'll eyeball it a lot.
And then if I see there's a discrepancy,
then I'm not really getting it,
I'll actually go into the Figma file and
get the exact value that's being used.
Padding is 0.75 and
then we can do a border radius on there as
well of br probably the 1, 2 maybe.
And, I think that looks pretty good.
So if we full screen that all of those
cards are there, we have to style and
make our selects work, but
at least the cards are all there.
If we take a look,
it's nice and responsive and
just works without us
having to do anything.
We also have to fix the, whoops, sorry.
We also have to fix the weird way
that things are stretching in them.
But other than that, I think we're off
to a pretty good start on this section.